# Seeing Clearly
### Author: Will Belew
#### Wed, Jan 22 2020
---<*>---
Hellllooooo! Coach Will checking in. It's been a minute since I've had a chance to write to all of you, and I miss it. It's a real pleasure to take a moment to try to coach via email. On one hand, it's always a feeling of "how the hell do you try to talk to hundreds of people at once?" But on the other, it's a chance to search for themes that resonate with all of us. Or, said a different way: how does fitness--and indeed all the stuff you do for movement, expression, health, or glory--actually fit into your life? What space does it take up in your thinking? How does it make you feel when you read or hear "fitness"? For some, it will be meaningless. "Oh, you mean working out? I do that. Sometimes. Do stairs count?" For others, it will be a religious experience: "Fitness Changed My Life"  But for everyone, at any point on the spectrum, it offers a way into deconstructing your physical capabilities, and seeing your movement self with clarity. That deconstruction is humbling, and it can be quite intense. But it is a way toward a  real -er more  embodied  sense of yourself. And that is why this work is meaningful to me.   With the right exercise tools, you can start conversations with parts of your body that you had lost touch with, or always seem to argue with. You reveal frustrations and limitations, but also strengths and abilities that you didn't realize. And all of that means, necessarily, that you know how to start, where to begin. Because now, you can see (more) clearly.  As tacky as New Years sentiments can be (whats so special about January, anyway??), I really like the one about 2020 being the year of better vision. It's a notion that inspires me, because it what special something it might unlock in each of us.  Here's to seeing clearly what's really going on, inside and out. Cheers! Go find your gold,  Coach Will
                        